
I’ve recently noticed a lot of negativity around social media. When I first deleted social media, I was just as negative. I thought the big social media companies were evil for years. I saw them as greedy, disgusting corporations that didn’t give a single s**t about the consequences they had on society and I tried to warn others. I would tell people how their privacy was being undermined and I would inform people of the dirty tactics the companies employed to keep their attention. Nobody cared. So I gave up preaching.

I have managed to stay off social media for some time now and I have reaped the extraordinary benefits from doing so. However, I began hearing more and more people complain about social media lately. People are literally going backwards and buying "dumbphones" to reduce their screen time. I initially took the “I told you so” mindset; however, I quickly realized that I could genuinely help people that are looking for help (feel free to message me if you're one of these people). I restarted thinking deeper about this issue and I’ve come to some realizations. 

Social media is not the problem. **The problem is that society did not get it right the first time…** and that’s okay. The internet is still extremely new and we are all trying to figure out how to use this technology properly. Although I still think the big social media *companies* have seriously harmed society, social media itself still has the potential to be beneficial. I want to challenge people to not demonize social media companies but rather see them as the first few social media experiments that should be discarded. We need to rethink social media and try again. This is just the first iteration of this technology and we still have the power to change/improve it.